<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the twenty-sixth meeting of Ecma TC54-TG2 on 2025-10-10

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 14:00 to 15:00 UTC
    - 16:00 to 17:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 10:00 to 11:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 07:00 to 08:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 23:00 to 00:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)
- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items
- Opening, welcome, and roll call (Chair)
- Review last call minutes: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/meetings/2025-09-12.md
- Ecma standard update
- Website update
    - What is a package?
    - Using PURL with VERS
- VERS update
- Schema changes
    - https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/690
    - https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/692


## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Nisha Kumar
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- The meeting is being recorded.  Our code of conduct applies to this meeting.  https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md.
- Intro by Philippe, preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Minutes from last meeting: approved.
- Summary
    - Philippe Ombredanne welcomed attendees before approving the previous meeting's minutes.
    - Michael Herzog provided updates on the Ecma standard, including style changes, the correction of an unintended "MAY" to "must" change, and the removal of irrelevant boilerplate text.
    - Michael Herzog and John Horan detailed the development of the PURL website, which will feature registered PURL types, core documentation, and VERS documentation.  Michael Herzog emphasized the need for content in the "Participate" and "About" sections and clarified the distinction between "adopters" and "supporters".
    - Michael Herzog outlined a new contribution process with separate workflows for normative and editorial changes, explaining that schema changes will require TG2 review and a vote.
    - Michael Herzog proposed using SemVer for the PURL spec and CalVer for PURL type definitions, with Philippe Ombredanne agreeing to a batch versioning approach.
    - Philippe Ombredanne also brought up the discussion about new PURL type proposals and the importance of involving community members.
    - Michael Herzog confirmed that schema IDs have been aligned.
- **Meeting Opening and Agenda Review** Philippe Ombredanne welcomed attendees and noted that the meeting is being recorded, the code of conduct applies, and the previous meeting's minutes are up for approval (00:00:00). The minutes for the 2025-09-12 meeting were approved without objection. Michael Herzog outlined the agenda, including schema changes, an Ecma standard update, website updates, and a VERS update, emphasizing that schema changes will be treated as substantive (00:01:30). Philippe Ombredanne also mentioned discussing the approach for PURL types, especially with conflicting opinions from the community (00:02:50).
- **Ecma Standard Update** Michael Herzog provided an update on the Ecma standard, noting numerous style changes required by Ecma (00:04:11). He highlighted a specific error John caught where a "MAY" was inadvertently changed to a "must" in the namespace component during previous edits, which constitutes a normative change that needs to be reverted to "may" (00:05:29) (00:06:50). This change was an unintended editorial mistake and not a deliberate normative change (00:13:10).
- **Correction of Ecma Document Content** Michael Herzog explained that a section on "implementation conformance" in the Ecma document, which was boilerplate from Ecma 39 (JavaScript spec), was mistakenly carried over into the PURL specification, despite being irrelevant and not present in CycloneDX. This section has been removed from the PDF version, and John Horan will work on PRs to correct the corresponding documents in the purl-spec repository (00:09:44).
- **PURL Spec vs. Ecma Standard Synchronization** Michael Herzog clarified that the official source code for the Ecma standard is a large HTML file, which is used for online publication and PDF creation (00:11:59). They explained that section five (what a PURL is) and section six (PURL type definition schema) are the substantive parts that need to be kept in sync between the PURL spec and the Ecma standard. Editorial sections like section four (introductory overview) do not require strict synchronization, as long as they don't contradict the normative content (00:14:20).
- **Ecma Standard Editions vs. PURL Spec Versions** Michael Herzog explained that Ecma uses "editions" for their standards, which are not directly tied to the number of releases of a specification, unlike typical versioning schemes. They proposed that the Ecma standard editions and the PURL spec versions should be disconnected, meaning a new standard edition is not issued every time there's a change to the spec (00:16:52). Michael Herzog also clarified that "normative" clauses define compliance requirements, while "editorial" content is everything else, meaning only sections five and six of the PURL spec are considered normative for Ecma (00:18:00).
- **Website Update and Structure** Michael Herzog provided an update on the PURL website, which is being developed by John Horan (00:19:03). The homepage will feature a grid of the 32 registered PURL types, with an expectation for this number to grow (00:20:14). The core documentation is published from the purl-spec repository, and JSON schema files are available on both GitHub and the website, with an interactive view created with json-schema-for-humans (https://github.com/coveooss/json-schema-for-humans) (00:22:11). The website also includes an adopters page and VERS documentation, which is being converted from RST to MD files and will be broken into logical chunks (00:23:17).
- **Website Content and Strategy** Michael Herzog discussed the need for content on the "Participate" and "About" sections of the website, which are tracked by issues in the packageurl.org repository (https://github.com/package-url/packageurl.org/issues) (00:23:17). They emphasized the importance of explaining "what is a package" using a use-case approach, especially regarding the optional nature of versions in PURL (00:24:14). Michael Herzog encouraged feedback on these issues, noting that the website is currently private and not yet ready for public publication (00:26:31). John Horan confirmed that the current development is in a fork in their private Git repository (00:27:33).  (See https://github.com/johnmhoran/packageurl.org/; see also https://github.com/package-url/packageurl.org/.)
- **Supporters and Adopters Distinction** Michael Herzog clarified the distinction between "adopters" and "supporters" for the website. Adopters refer to projects or companies that have adopted PURL or VERS, while supporters are organizations providing financial or substantive support, including those participating in the Ecma standardization process (00:30:24). Adam Herzog will be responsible for managing this section, considering different rules for open-source and company supporters. Michael Herzog also mentioned plans for a timeline and branding guidelines for the website (00:31:32).
- **Documentation and Contribution Process** Nisha Kumar inquired about the content's location, to which Michael Herzog confirmed that the primary content for the PURL spec and VERS documentation resides in their respective GitHub repositories (00:32:35). Michael Herzog outlined a new process for contributions, distinguishing between "normative" and "editorial" changes. Normative changes (e.g., schema changes) will require an issue explaining the background, while editorial changes (e.g., typos) may only require a pull request. They also mentioned plans for issue and PR templates, similar to CycloneDX practices (00:33:51).
- **Schema Change Governance** Michael Herzog explained that schema changes, which are considered normative, will require review and a vote by the TG2 meeting. General discussions will occur in both the TG2 and PURL community meetings, but formal approvals will happen at the TG2 meeting (00:36:40). They also noted the need to announce upcoming schema change discussions on the OWASP and AboutCode Slack channels to ensure wider participation (00:37:47).
- **VERS Update and Standardization** Michael Herzog provided an update on VERS, stating that its documentation is being converted to an MD file and will be broken into logical sections. They highlighted the significance of VERS being proposed as a reference standard for CLE (Common Lifecycle Enumeration) in the December Ecma General Assembly (00:38:54). Philippe Ombredanne added that VERS is aiming for a presentation in Q1 or Q2 of 2026, specifically the June Ecma general assembly (00:40:04).
- **Versioning Scheme Discussion** Michael Herzog introduced the "versioning scheme" issue, a gating decision for the PURL spec's release 1 tag (00:41:29). They proposed using semantic versioning (SemVer) for the PURL spec: major version for breaking changes (e.g., schema changes), minor for normative changes (e.g., significant character encoding rules), and patch for editorial changes (00:43:04). For PURL type definitions, Michael Herzog suggested assigning a version to a collection of definitions rather than individual ones, possibly using a calendar-based versioning scheme (CalVer) to avoid confusion with the spec's versioning (00:44:10). Philippe Ombredanne agreed with the batch versioning approach, preferring CalVer to convey a notion of time (00:45:28).
- **Schema ID Alignment and Housekeeping** Michael Herzog explained that the schema IDs in all schemas have been aligned to refer to the /schemas folder on the packageurl.org website (00:48:04) (see also https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/tree/main/schemas and https://github.com/package-url/vers-spec/tree/main/schemas). The schema IDs for the PURL type definition and PURL types index, which were submitted to Ecma, are frozen at 1.0, and any changes will be under a 1.1 version in the repository. Test schemas, which are not yet standardized, are starting at version 0.1. This schema-level versioning will ensure that the reference file for each schema matches its ID, which was previously a source of confusion for users (00:49:02).
- **Discussion on New PURL Type Proposals** Philippe Ombredanne raised the topic of evolving the approach for new PURL types, citing a pending PR for the Julia language (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/540) as an example (00:52:34). They emphasized the importance of involving core community members (e.g., Julia maintainers) while also reviewing proposals through the prism of PURL's general applicability, ensuring consistency and avoiding ecosystem-specific eccentricities. Michael Herzog agreed that adding a PURL type should require an issue, potentially using a template, to ensure background information and community input are gathered before a pull request (00:54:04).
- The meeting was adjourned.
